There is a large group of dictionary learning algorithms that focus on adaptive sparse representation of data. Some of them are
only applicable to small data, such as K-SVD and the non-parameter Bayesian method; other algorithms such as online dictionary
leaning method (ODL) and recursive Least Squares dictionary learning method (RLS) could train the dictionary by using relatively
large samples. However, almost all of them fix the number of atoms in iterations and use un-feasible schemes to update their atoms in the the dictionary learning process. Therefore, it is difficult for them to train a dictionary from big data, which is a very large data set with thousands of remote sensing images from long temporal sequences and form very large areas of the earth’s surface. In this project, we proposed a new dictionary learning algorithm by extending the classical K-SVD method. In the proposed method, when each new batch of samples data is added to the training process, we selectively introduce a number of new atoms into the dictionary. Furthermore, only a small group of new atoms as subspace controls the current orthogonal matching pursuit, construction of error matrix, and SVD decomposition process in every training cycle. The information from both old samples and new samples are explored in the proposed incremental K-SVD (IK-SVD) algorithm, but only the current atoms are adaptively updated, which makes the dictionary better represent all the samples without the influence of the redundant information from old samples. To represent the data set efficiently and sparsely, we also introduce a new constraint into the object function of atoms updating. Because both the sparse coding step and the atoms updating step are promoted, the proposed method is applicable to sparse the representation
of very large spatial-temporal remote sensing image sets.

Citation:
Lizhe Wang, Ke Lu, Peng Liu, Rajiv Ranjan, Lajiao Chen, "IK-SVD: Dictionary Learning for Spatial Big Data via Incremental Atom Update," Computing in Science and Engineering, 21 April 2014. IEEE computer Society Digital Library. IEEE Computer Society.
http://www.computer.org/csdl/mags/cs/preprint/06799952-abs.html